# Chapter 5: Logos

Logos helps us developers hook, group and initialize parts of code, that would normally require a lot more code to write. I will show the basics of it, but a better detailed guide of Logos can be found [here](https://iphonedevwiki.net/index.php/Logos). 

## Hooks - %hook

You may have heard the term hooking before. This is what tweaks do. iOS is written mainly in Objective-C, and this allows us with the help of substrate/substitute to override values and change/add to the code that is already run. 

This is how hooks are done using Theos' Logos. ```%hook``` followed by the name of a [class](). When hooking a class, you must always end it with a corresponding ```%end```. This just tells Theos you are done with that class. When hooking something, I start by typing a ```%hook``` followed by three new lines and ending with a ```%end```. We will go more into Objective-C classes in the next chapter.

```objective-c
%hook ClassName

- (void)method;

%end
```

## Groups - %group

Groups are used to break code into different sections. If your tweak is very simple and is only a few hooks this will not be necessary. As our testtweak gets more complicated over the course of the guide we will add groups, and show how to use them properly. Just like a ```%hook``` groups are closed with a ```%end```.

```objective-c
%group GroupName

%hook ClassName

- (void)method;

%end

%end
```

Notice the two ```%end``` here, all hooks and groups must have a closing end.

## Constructors - %ctor

A constructor is a piece of code that is run whenever a new instance of your tweak is loaded. If your tweak is only for one app, your constructor will be run every time the app is launched. For tweaks that modify system or SpringBoard stuff, the constructor can be called many times. This is why a constructor must be made properly, SpringBoard tweaks can accidentally be injected into processes that you did not intend to or even know about. Constructors must be used when using groups however, this is the only way to initialize one. Tweaks without a constructor will use a default hidden one which runs your hooks directly, treating them as their own default group. Notice unlike ```%hook``` or ```%group``` a constructor needs ```{}``` and does not require a ```%end```.

```objective-c
%ctor {

  %init(GroupName);
  
  return;

}
```

[Home](https://github.com/MTACS/TweakGuide/blob/master/README.md) | [Previous Chapter](https://github.com/MTACS/TweakGuide/blob/master/chapters/4.md) | [Chapter 6: Writing code](https://github.com/MTACS/TweakGuide/blob/master/chapters/6.md)
